In the last video,
we reviewed some
of the more common methods on StringBuilder.
Let's take a look at one that might not do
what you expect.
So I'm gonna create a new class in our StringBuilder project
called StringBuilderExtras.
(typing)
Okay, so there's the code.
Pretty straightforward.
We're creating a new StringBuilder instance.
We're appending some data, printing out what the value is,
the length and capacity.
The code we're focusing on is on line 21.
What do you think trimToSize actually does?
And as a result, what would be the current value
of the builder, length, and capacity
after the call trimToSize?
Let's actually run the code and see what happens.
So you can see that neither the value,
or the length that the StringBuilder object changed
after executing the method trimToSize.
Rather, the capacity was reduced to the length
of the StringBuilder value.
The javadoc for trimToSize describes the method's purpose
as, quote, "Attempts to reduce storage used
"for the character sequence."
Un-quote.
So how would you trim or strip leading
or trailing white space from a StringBuilder?
Well there aren't any actual methods to do this
on a StringBuilder.
Generally any cleaning or transformation of Strings
is best done as you're appending data
to your StringBuilder.
But let's say, let's paste this code
at the end of the main method.
And what I'm gonna do is just replace the value
of the StringBuilder object with a cleaned up String.
(typing)
Okay, there's our code.
You can see that I've got a call there
on line 26 to replace,
but I'm using builder.toString, .strip.
Let's actually run this.
So you can say that you can apply any string method
to the string value from the toString method call
of StringBuilder and replace your entire StringBuilder
value with the transformString.
That's exactly what I've done on line 26.
Now, I haven't covered the method getChars
for String or StringBuilder.
So let's review that here,
because there may be some coverage of this
on the exam, but I am not sure that this is a method
that's used a lot.
It's structured a bit differently
because it doesn't return anything from the method itself
but alters data in one of the parameters passed to it.
So I've got a chunk of code
that I'm gonna paste in to show you what I mean.
Let's have a look at that code.
(typing)
Right, so there's the code.
What I'll do, I'll just go up to the code
as it was pasted in.
This is here.
So I'm going to export the getChars method
on String and StringBuilder.
So I've got some test data on line 34.
So we're doing a couple of calls to getChars on String
and also on StringBuilder object.
We're outputting it.
Basically just making some changes there.
So let's actually run this code
and I'll talk about it a bit more.
So hopefully you could see that the array, the changes
are quite interesting.
The char array result is the same length
as the array passed into the getChars method,
but this particular method lets you populate the array
with some part of the String or StringBuilder
from which the method's called.
That's a little bit unusual.
So, what happens, though, if our destination char array
is too short?
Well, let's paste in some code to see what happens
in that scenario.
(typing)
All right, so there's the code.
Now if we run this, we'll probably get an error.
We should get an error.
We have got an error.
You can see we've got an error there on line 78.
And basically that's what happens
if you're trying to make changes
and the destination char Array is too short.
All right, so I'll just comment out that last bit of code
so it'll still compile.
(typing)
All right, so you can see here how easily
if the getChars method is not one you use a lot
that a question on the certification exam
could confuse you or trip you up.
String and StringBuilder both implement this method,
but not through the CharSequence interface.
So if you see an exam question applying this method
to a CharSequence, you can safely flag it
as a compile error.
So the destination parameter for the characters,
the third parameter, must be an initialised char array.
If you see an exam question with any other type,
or the array is not initialised, you can also flag that
as a compile error.
The destination character array size must be greater
or equal to the length of the selected source
plus the defined destination index.
You receive a runtime error, as we saw in this code,
if you exceed the array size.
Finally, if you do not select any characters
from the source by specifying sourceEndIndex
equals sourceStartIndex,
then your char array does not change at all.
All right so that's the out of the ordinary concepts
from StringBuilders.
Let's end the video here and we'll move on to a quiz
on StringBuilders and then on to the next section
and specifically in that section,
we're gonna start talking about operators
and decision constructs.
See you in the next quiz slash next section.